# 1431. Kids With the Greatest Number of Candies

There are **n** kids with candies. You are given an integer array **candies**, where each **candies[i]** represents the number of candies the **ith** kid has, and an integer **extraCandies**, denoting the number of extra candies that you have.

Return a boolean array **result** of length **n**, where **result[i]** is **true** if, after giving the **ith** kid all the **extraCandies**, *they will have the **greatest** number of candies among all the kids*, or **false** otherwise.

Note that **multiple** kids can have the **greatest** number of candies.

## Example 1:

**Input:** candies = [2,3,5,1,3], extraCandies = 3
**Output:** [true,true,true,false,true] 
**Explanation:** If you give all extraCandies to:
* Kid 1 will have 2 + 3 = 5 candies, which is the greatest among the kids.
* Kid 2 will have 3 + 3 = 6 candies, which is the greatest among the kids.
* Kid 3 will have 5 + 3 = 8 candies, which is the greatest among the kids.
* Kid 4 will have 1 + 3 = 4 candies, which is not the greatest among the kids.
* Kid 5 will have 3 + 3 = 6 candies, which is the greatest among the kids.

## Example 2:

**Input:** candies = [4,2,1,1,2], extraCandies = 1
**Output:** [true,false,false,false,false] 
**Explanation:** There is only 1 extra candy.
Kid 1 will always have the greatest number of candies, even if a different kid is given the extra candy.

## Example 3:

**Input:** candies = [12,1,12], extraCandies = 10
**Output:** [true,false,true]

## Constraints:

* *n == candies.length*
* *2 <= n <= 100*
* *1 <= candies[i] <= 100*
* *1 <= extraCandies <= 50*

## Intuition
We can divide the problem into two problems, the first one is to identify the longest number, which will be de reference to determine if either the reuslt would be true or false.

Once we have it, we can use the brute force by comparing the sum of the number vs the highest number, and return true if it is higher or equals to the highest or false if it's different.

this brute force solution could be O(2n) which ultimately is O(n), but is there another way to make this comparission in a more efficiente way?

1. **Identify the highest number:** as for what I have seen, the numbers are no ordered, therefore, there is no way we can make a turn around, we have to look at each value in order to find it.

2. **Compare:** lets think about the number of operations to compare each value vs the highest value. 

    a. select the number
    b. add the extra candies
    c. compare vs the highest number

I believe that here we can get rid of some operations... a possible solution is:
Once you have identified the highest number, you can consider the difference between the highest number vs all the other numbers, and then see if the resulting values are equals to or lower the extra candies.

    a. difference of highest number - each number
    b. compare if result is <= highest number

And with this you get rid of a step..

Nonethless, I think there could be another *efficiency if I run the comparision while at the same time we Identify the highest number*, but how?
    
Let's make some **mental experiments**:

We can take the first value and add to it the number of candies in the bag, and then compare it vs all the other value, with this we can only know to things for sure...

Either if *the CURRENT VALUE can be the the highest or if it can't*. This could bring the complexity to O(n*n), which will take more time.

*Another option* could be ...

## Algorithm


## Implementation

```py

    def kidsWithCandies(candies, extraCandies):
        """
        :type candies: List[int]
        :type extraCandies: int
        :rtype: List[bool]
        """
        max = 0

        for i in candies:
            if max < i:
                max = i
        
        for index, value in enumerate(candies):

            if (max - value) > extraCandies:
                candies[index] = False
            else:
                candies[index] = True

        return candies

```

## Complexity

Runtime: 0ms Beats 100.00%
Memory: 11.59 MB Beats 63.69%

## Test Case 1
candies = [2,3,5,1,3]
extraCandies = 3

## Test Case 2
candies = [4,2,1,1,2]
extraCandies = 1

## Test Case 3
candies = [12,1,12]
extraCandies = 10

## Other Solutions

```
def kidsWithCandies(candies, extraCandies):
    # Find out the greatest number of candies among all the kids.
    maxCandies = max(candies)

    # For each kid, check if they will have greatest number of candies.
    # Among all the kids.

    result = []
    for i in range(len(candies)):
        result.append(candies[i] + extraCandies >= maxCandiex)

    return result

```

### Intuition
We precompute the greatest number of candies that any kid(s) has, let's call it maxCandies.

Following the precomputation, we iterate over candies, checking whether the total candies that the current kid has exceeds maxCandies after giving extraCandies to the kid. For every kid, we perform candies[i] + extraCandies >= maxCandies and push it into a boolean list called result.

In the end, we return result.

Here's a visual representation of how the approach works in the first example given in the problem description:

## Optimal Solution in Memory

Memorie: 10mb

```
def kidsWithCandies(candies, extraCandies):
    maxi = max(candies)
    x = extraCandies
    result = []

    for kid in candies:
        if(kid + x >= maxi):
            result = result + [True]
        else:
            result = result + [False]

```

## Alternate solution with this input.
Runtime: 0ms Beats 100%
Memory: 11.62mb Beats 30.12%

```py

def kidsWithCandies(candies, extraCandies):
    """
    :type candies: List[int]
    :type extraCandies: int
    :rtype: List[bool]
    """
    maxCandies = max(candies)
    
    for index, value in enumerate(candies):
        candies[index] = (maxCandies - value) <= extraCandies

    return candies

```

## Alternate solution with this input to understand how to improve memory

This is an execercise for me to understand memory usage, there will be a sligth variation, I will get read of the method max().

Runtime: 0ms Beats 100%
Memory: 11.65mb Beats 30.12%

```

def kidsWithCandies(candies, extraCandies):
    """
    :type candies: List[int]
    :type extraCandies: int
    :rtype: List[bool]
    """
    maxCandies = 0

    for i in candies:
        if maxCandies < i:
            maxCandies = i
    
    for index, value in enumerate(candies):
        candies[index] = (maxCandies - value) <= extraCandies

    return candies

```

There is almost no difference, therefore, the previous solution is the best one, I guess, as it is more concise.