# 1732. Find the Highest Altitude (Prefix sum)

There is a biker going on a road trip. Te road trip consistts of **n + 1** points at different altitudes. The biker starts his trip on point **0**, with altitude equal **0**.

You are given an integer array **gain** of length **n** where **gain[i]** is the *net gain in altitude* betwenn points **i** and **i + 1** for al ( **0 <= i < n** ). Return the **highest altitude** of a point.

## Example 1:

**Input:** gain = [-5,1,5,0,-7]
**Output:** 1
**Explanation:** The altitudes are [0,-5,-4,1,1,-6]. The highest is 1.

## Example 2:

**Input:** gain = [-4,-3,-2,-1,4,3,2]
**Output:** 0
**Explanation:** The altitutdes are [0,-4,-7,-9,-10,-6,-3,-1]. The highest is 0.

## Constraints:

* *n == gain.length*
* *1 <= n <= 100*
* *-100 <= gain[i] <= 100*

## Definitions
Es una técnica en programación que se utiliza para calcular de manera eficiente la suma acumulada de los elementos de un array (o lista) hasta cada posición. Es muy útil para resolver problemas que involucran consultas de sume en rangos de un array de forma rápida.

### Example:


```py
def calcular_prefix_sum(arr):
    prefix = [0] * len(arr)
    prefix[0] = arr[0]
    for i in range(1, len(arr)):
        prefix[i] = prefix[i-1] + arr[i]
    return prefix

arr = [3, 1, 2, 5, 4]
prefix = calcular_prefix_sum(arr)
print("Prefix Sum:", prefix)
```

## Intuition

I will asume that we are always start, and maybe that is the case. The objective is the get the highest altitude, having as a reference the point 0, from which we start.

I think we can run over the entire array adding each time the previous sum of values.... so we know where we are standing.

Also it is important to register and store the highest value so far to compare it with the present value, so we can properly store the highest value.

I think that is the way to answer this. To achieve it, we should run the methodology through out the entire list of values, at least once.
    
Let's make some **mental experiments**:
*Not necessary this time*


## Algorithm

We must have the variables:
highest_gain
current_gain
prev_gain

And think about this variables so they are no declared and unused to save memory.


## Implementation

```py

    def kidsWithCandies(gain):
        """
        :type candies: List[int]
        :type extraCandies: int
        :rtype: List[bool]
        """
        highest_gain = 0
        prefix = [0] * len(gain)
        prefix[0] = gain[0]

        if prefix[0] > highest_gain:
            highest_gain = prefix[0]

        for i in range(1, len(gain)):
            prefix[i] = prefix[i-1] + gain[i]

            if prefix[i] > highest_gain:
                highest_gain = prefix[i]
        
        return highest_gain
```

## Complexity

Runtime: 0ms Beats 100.00%
Memory: 12.51 MB Beats 9.51%

## Test Case 1
gain = [-5,1,5,0,-7]
extraCandies = 1

## Test Case 2
gain = [-4,-3,-2,-1,4,3,2]
extraCandies = 0